# Introduction

Every 500 years, there is a rummage sale. You might expect that the proceeds of
the sale should go to the poor. In Petrarch, that is not how the system works.

This is the world of Saint Peter. He convinced generations of Homo Sapiens in
the deity of a carpenter from Nazareth. If you can believe that story, you can
believe anything.

In this petri dish of human imagination, stories are the real currency. We trade
on belief systems. Money is just a story we tell ourselves. We have believed
this story for thousands of years. But money is not real.

Still, we believe in money, so it shapes our reality, our aspirations, our
dreams, our habits. We think. Therefore, we are. We create our reality by
thinking it into existence.

How can we understand reality? We look through a pinhole and think that we
perceive the world. We know so little, yet we stake our lives on the certainty
of our beliefs, founded upon the illusion of perception. The images projected by
the lenses of our eyes onto two retinas are upside down. Our brain needs to
decode these fragments of electrical energy into patterns that we can recognize
as reality. We have no idea how that happens, but it does. And here we are,
floating on this rock in space, somehow able to perceive our lonely station, and
our place in a vast universe, contemplating our existence only long enough to
understand that, by the time our fragile biological containers decay back to
dust, we barely knew ourselves, let alone the unrecorded experiences of a myriad
of living creatures on this incomprehensible planet.

Yet, here we are trying to comprehend the incomprehensible.

Yesterday, I decided to write the novel of my life. It is a tale told by an
idiot, strutting across this stage of life, an absurd farce, an unspeakable
horror, an indescribable paradise.

They call us user experience designers. It is the height of hubris. We have no
idea what we are doing. It’s just marketing.

I decided to write a novel. I have no idea how to write a novel. I have a faint
memory of learning about setting, characters, plot, conflict, rising action,
climax, and denouement. I learned vocabulary, syntax, and grammar. Then, I met
my best friend, married, and raised a daughter, telling her bedtime stories that
magically turned into film. We read The Hobbit, and the Lord of the Rings
trilogy, The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe. In between our walks to school
and my commutes to and from work, we were able to imagine different worlds and
characters and stories that became more real to us than our own mundane lives.

We would walk out of those theatres and discover that our daily existence could
never compare with our imaginations, so we lived vicariously through the
imaginations of others, brought to life through the invisible labour of the huge
host of characters that lived behind the curtain, ceaselessly creating new
worlds for our constant entertainment.

Why a novel? It’s new. It’s innovative. It is manufactured. It can only ever be
a story that I tell myself. My own experience is a moment in time on a planet of
creatures who each have a story of their own to tell. I can only tell my own
story. And I can barely remember any of it, after more than 50 years of my life
have already past. I am just making this up as I go along.

It is said, “Write what you know.” But I don’t know much. I must write of what I
don’t know. To write, I must be endlessly curious. So, I explore what it means
to be human in the 21st century, living in Abbotsford, a small farming community
on the flood plain of the Fraser River, an hour’s drive from Vancouver, Canada.

I am writing in a stream of consciousness, next to a stream of consciousness, in
a stream of consciousness.

Maybe I will publish my novel with GitHub. It would be like writing a novel with
blockchain. I could even use Blockstack to store my work on something that might
have a longer life as digital data than I may have as organic life. The
corporation has discovered the secret of immortality by deceiving humans to
grant it legal personhood. Thus, to dissolve the corporation would be tantamount
to murder.

I heard a click. I stopped typing my novel for a moment to get out of bed, walk
down the stairs and open the front door. Lucky is nocturnal. Who knows what he
does, but we know that he has chosen our house as his home. We know his name
because his owners told us that he had survived on his own for six months, alone
on a mountain known for populations of deer, coyotes, bears, and cougars. He is
a survivor. He is also entitled. He has come to expect certain comforts. He has
worked out ways of communicating with his human slaves to be certain that his
basic needs — water, food, and shelter — are met.

I climb back into bed. Lucky jumps up and enjoys a pet just long enough for him
to find a spot between Jayne and I on the bed.

Yesterday, I decided the name for my novel: Petrarchy. I also, decided a theme,
drawing from something I read about our code of ethics: design is political.

The name is rich with meaning that extends back over two millennia to the son of
a fisherman on the Galilean lakeside. Peter had no idea how his mistakes would
be immortalized for the world to read. And they call his successors infallible.
Peter would fall all over himself to say the stupidest things. His folly is
reincarnated through the generations of men who have taken up the mantle of the
one true disciple of the Almighty God.

The stories we tell ourselves.
